High in this video I want to briefly talk about namespace packages.
So what are implicit namespace packages while namespace packages are packages like in the sense that
they are directories which may contain modules that may contain nested regular packages and that may
also contain nested namespace packages but they do not contain a Dondre in it.
Dopy why file.
So the directory that's the namespace package cannot have any code associated with it on like a regular
package that has associated code by using this donder in that P Why file.
So these directories are implicitly made into these special types of packages.
That's why they called implicit namespace packages.
We don't have a donder in it to explicitly set a directory as a package and you can read all about it
in Peppe full 20.
That really gives a very detailed explanation of why these things were created and how they are used
and how they work.
The basic mechanics is this.
Let's say we have this directory structure in our application so our app root is somewhere up here.
And inside we've got this utils folder have a validators folder that contains two python files and it
also contains a Jaison directory that has an in it.
And it also contains two module fonts.
So you tildes you'll notice doesn't contain a done during the p y file.
If you look in the containment direction table of utils it doesn't have a danger in it.
So that's a namespace package an implicit namespace package validators also doesn't contain a dunder
init.
So it is also a namespace package boolean.
On the other hand is just a file a p y extension so that's a model.
Same thing with Date.
Jason is a directory but it contains a dander in it the P1 file.
So it is a regular package Serializer is as just a file of AP wire extension.
So it's a model and then so as validators.
So essentially that's how the namespace packages are recognized.
Python has to go through and basically check to see if those things hold.
Does utils have a danger in it.
Dopy why.
You know if you're looking at boolean inside a Validate doesn't solve utos it has to recognize that
this is a file of a p y extension so it's a module and things like that.
So a regular module as opposed to a namespace module or a regular package module.
So that's how you can figure out what's what.
It has to walk.
Essentially that tree to figure that out.
So can we contrast regular and namespace packages.
While the type the type of a regular package is a module we've seen that before.
And the type of a namespace package is also a module.
The big difference is that the namespace package doesn't actually have code associated with the module
whereas the regular package does the Dunder init so under an adoptee Why yes we have to have that file
in order to create a regular package.
That's how we essentially indicate to Python that a directory is a package with a namespace package.
On the other hand that init file should not be present.
So basically every directory is going to get turned into something or other a regular package or a namespace
package depending on whether it has the under init file or not.
Of course this is for directories that are inside your Python application.
What about the Dondre file property.
Well yes the Dunta file property is going to basically reference the Dunder init file inside the package
namespace packages don't have that Dunder init file so the Dunder file is not set.
There is no associated code file.
What about the paths.
Well we've seen that in a regular package.
Your path.
If you're not using relative import as your lock loading and building up your packets at the top level
if you change the name of one of the parent containers then things break and you have to either rename
things or you should be using relative imports.
On the other hand with namespace packages those paths will be rebuilt every time the project loads the
dynamic.
You know the path is dynamically computed So it's OK if the parent directories change because that path
is going to get rebuilt.
Now of course if you're importing something that's nested inside a namespace package while your import
statements are still going to need to be modified to reflect the new names right that's still going
to break but within the namespace package nothing is going to break because you have no import statements.
You don't have that in your under init files to do impuls.
So that's not going to break.
Another difference between regular and namespace packages is that a single package typically lives in
a single directory.
We have you know what we saw in the last video we looked at the common package that we created.
Everything was nested underneath this common directory in namespace packages your package can actually
live in multiple non nested directories.
They don't have to be nested within each other to be considered part of the same package.
The some path manipulations that you have to do to get that to happen but you can actually do that.
In fact parts of the namespace may even be in a zip file.
Right.
Parts of that namespace could live somewhere else.
They don't even have to live inside your project.
They can live somewhere else so the cycle can.
Example.
Let's say we have this for an application so this is our route for the app and then we have two directories
utils in common and under utils we have another directory called validators and in there we've got a
module file boolean on the common.
We have the Dunder init file and then we have a validators folder and underneath of that we have a boolean
PI module.
So you'll notice that utils in common have kind of the same structure.
It's utos validate as boolean common validate validators bullion.
The difference is this donder init.
So for utils which doesn't have a dunder in it that is a namespace package common.
On the other hand has that done in it.
So it's a regular package so the type is we saw both of those types are going to be modules.
Nothing new there.
The Dundon name property is going to be also utils for the utils namespace package.
That doesn't change just as it is common for this common regular package.
What about the representation if we call repr on the utils namespace package what do we get back.
We get a module we get the name and then we get this.
It tells us this is a namespace as opposed to of a regular package which will tell us where it came
from.
It's going to tell us that this module common came from apps slash common wherever that full fully qualified
path is right.
It's telling us where it came from.
Here for the namespace it doesn't.
It just tells us it's a namespace package.
What about the PAF property.
While the path property is going to namespace packages return the namespace object that will contain
the path to the arm to the package.
But basically it's an immutable thing we can't monkey around with it.
On the other hand of a regular package would get a regular list back so technically we can monkey around
with this and start pulling in different directories into our package.
It doesn't have to be a single file structure so name spaces don't allow you to manipulate that.
There's another way in which we can split a namespace package across different directories with regular
packages we can do it sensibly by hacking into the path.
What about the file.
Well the file isn't set for a namespace package.
There is no code module on the other hand for regular package we've got that under init Doppie why.
So that points to that package while the utils package is a package so it's itself just like common
was its own package.
If we look at a sub package or a sub folder subdirectory So some namespace package or a sub namespace
package here as well right because validators doesn't have a done in it.
So validate is actually a namespace package that we get that validators has a package of utils that
validate it that's where it moves just like validators inside common it lives inside the common package.
So no difference there.
How about importing from namespace packages.
So suppose we have the structure right.
We have a namespace package utils a namespace package validators and a regular package called Dasen.
We have these files in each one of those.
Then we can just say import utils that validate is a boolean.
OK we're going to import this module essentially when we do that.
We can also do from utos dub validators import data from utils that validated the data path notation.
Import the module date.
We can also reach into the regular package even though these two top level ones are namespace packages
we can still use a doctor patient to traverse the namespace and the regular package.
So here we have import utos validators which traversing namespace packages that Jason we're now going
into a regular package and now we're traversing the regular package data serialising and we'll grab
the serializer module out of the regular Jaison package.
So that's really all I'm going to say about namespace packages.
The first thing you should do really is to familiarize yourself with regular packages.
You all do that first make sure that you're completely comfortable with them.
And then if you want go and check out namespace packages it's very similar.
It behaves in a very similar way.
The only difference of course is that you can't manipulate your you know and flatten your namespace
the way that you do that with regular packages.
So you can't do that.
You have to look with whatever structure you give to the namespace package.
But if you want you can spread namespace packages over different parts of your disk even into zip files
and things like that.
And if you're interested go ahead and read Pepp 420.
That should definitely be your starting point.
All right.
Thanks for watching.
And also in the next video.